Draft article for Trusted Types (#2372)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/trusted-types/index.md

---

> title: Trusted Types

Reviewer: I wouldn't use the abbreviation in the title. I'd have to look at the Chicago manual for the exact rule, but I don't think I've seen that done very often.

> title: Trusted Types

Author: I settled on "Prevent DOM-based cross-site scripting vulnerabilities with Trusted Types" for the title, and used "DOM XSS" in the subhead. 

That capitalisation is used throughout the document, as that's the one Wikipedia used.

subhead: Use Trusted Types to prevent DOM cross-site scripting vulnerabilities.
authors:
  - koto
date: 2020-03-25
# Add an updated date to your post if you edit in the future.
# updated: 2019-06-27
hero: hero.png
# You can adjust the position of your hero image with this property.
# Values: top | bottom | center (default)
# hero_position: bottom
# thumbnail: thumbnail.png
alt: Code snippets demonstrating Cross-Site Scripting vulnerabilities.
description: |
  Introducing Trusted Types: a browser API to prevent DOM-Based cross-site
  scripting in modern web applications.
tags:
  - post # post is a required tag for the article to show up in the blog.
  - security
  - trusted-types
---

## Why should you care?

> DOM-Based Cross-Site Scripting (DOM XSS) is one of the most common web

Author: Settled on DOM-based cross-site-scripting to follow Wikipedia.

[default policy](https://w3c.github.io/webappsec-trusted-types/dist/spec/#default-policy-hdr):

```javascript
if (window.trustedTypes && trustedTypes.createPolicy) { // Feature testing
  trustedTypes.createPolicy('default', {
    createHTML: (string, sink) => DOMPurify.sanitize(string, {RETURN_TRUSTED_TYPE: true});
  });
}
```

The policy with a name `default` is used wherever a string is
used in a sink that only accepts Trusted Type.
{% Aside 'gotchas' %}
Use the default policy sparingly, and prefer refactoring the application to use
regular policies instead. Doing so encourages designs in which the security
rules are close to the data that they process, where you have the most context
to correctly sanitize the value.
{% endAside %}

### Switch to enforcing Content Security Policy

When your application no longer produces violations, you can start enforcing
Trusted Types:

```text
Content-Security-Policy: require-trusted-types-for 'script'; report-uri //my-csp-endpoint.example
```

Voila! Now, no matter how complex your web application is, the only thing that
can introduce a DOM XSS vulnerability, is the code in one of your policies - and

> you can lock that down even more by [limiting policy creation](https://w3c.github.io/webappsec-trusted-types/dist/spec/#trusted-types-csp-directive).

Author: Thanks!

review and maintain DOM-XSS free applications by making the dangerous Web API
functions secure by default. Trusted Types are supported in Chrome 82, with
a [polyfill](https://github.com/w3c/webappsec-trusted-types#polyfill) available
for other browsers.

{% Aside 'key-term' %}
DOM Based Cross-Site Scripting (DOM XSS) happens when data from user controlled
_source_ (like user name, or redirect URL taken from the URL fragment)
reaches a _sink_ - function that can execute arbitrary JavaScript code
(like `eval` or `.innerHTML` property setter).
{% endAside %}

## Chrome launches Trusted Types

For many years [Cross Site Scripting](https://owasp.org/www-community/attacks/xss/),
or XSS is one of the most prevalent—and dangerous—web security vulnerabilities.

There are two distinct groups of Cross Site Scripting. Some
XSSes are caused by the server-side code that insecurely creates the HTML code
forming the website. Others have a root cause on the client, where the JavaScript
code calls dangerous functions with user-controlled content.

To prevent server-side XSS, don't generate
HTML by concatenating strings and use safe contextual-autoescaping templating

> libraries instead. Use a [nonce-based Content Security Policy](https://csp.withgoogle.com/docs/strict-csp.html) for additional mitigation against the bugs as they inevitably happen.

Reviewer 2: I generally agree with Joe but am OK with this paragraph, because it doesn't add a huge amount of extraneous information to the content. I do agree that we should link to an article that guides users through solving server-side XSS.

> libraries instead. Use a [nonce-based Content Security Policy](https://csp.withgoogle.com/docs/strict-csp.html) for additional mitigation against the bugs as they inevitably happen.

Author: Added a link, I'd prefer if the paragraph was kept, as it defines more clearly what this variant of XSS is about, as opposed to server side XSSes.

like HTTPS, so make sure your application is served in one - for example on
`localhost` or over HTTPS.
{% endAside %}

### Identify Trusted Types violations

From now on, everytime Trusted Types detect a violation, a report will be sent
to a configured `report-uri`. For example, when your application
passes a string to `innerHTML`, the browser sends the following report:

```json/6,8,10
{
"csp-report": {
    "document-uri": "https://my.url.example",
    "violated-directive": "require-trusted-types-for",
    "disposition": "report",
    "blocked-uri": "trusted-types-sink",
    "line-number": 39,
    "column-number": 12,
    "source-file": "https://my.url.example/script.js",
    "status-code": 0,
    "script-sample": "Element innerHTML <img src=x"
}
}
```

In `https://my.url.example/script.js` on line 39 `innerHTML` was called with
the string beginning with `<img src=x`.
This information should help you narrow down which parts of code may be
introducing DOM XSS and need to change.

{% Aside %}
Most of the violations like this can also be detected by running a code linter
or [static code checkers](https://github.com/mozilla/eslint-plugin-no-unsanitized)

> on your codebase. This is preferable to quickly identify a large chunk of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
on your codebase. This helps quickly identify a large chunk of
```

violations.

That said, we recommend also analyzing the CSP violations, as these trigger if

> and only if the non-conforming code is executed.

Reviewer: 'if and only if'

Why not 'when'?

{% endAside %}

### Fix the violations

> There are a couple of options for fixing a Trusted Type violation. You can [Remove the offending code](#remove-the-offending-code), [Use a library](#use-a-library), [Create a Trusted Type policy](#create-a-trusted-type-policy) or, as a last resort, [create a default policy](#create-a-default-policy).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are a couple of options for fixing a Trusted Type violation. You can [remove the offending code](#remove-the-offending-code), [use a library](#use-a-library), [create a Trusted Type policy](#create-a-trusted-type-policy) or, as a last resort, [create a default policy](#create-a-default-policy).
```

#### Rewrite the offending code
Perhaps the non-conforming functionality is not needed anymore or can be
rewritten in a modern way without using the error-prone functions?

{% Compare 'worse' %}
```javascript
el.innerHTML = '<img src=xyz.jpg>';
```
{% endCompare %}

{% Compare 'better' %}
```javascript
el.textContent = '';
const img = document.createElement('img');
img.src = 'xyz.jpg';
el.appendChild(img);
```
{% endCompare %}

#### Use a library
Some libraries already generate Trusted Types that you can pass to the
sink functions. For example, you can use
[DOMPurify](https://github.com/cure53/DOMPurify) that will

> sanitize a HTML snippet, removing XSS payloads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sanitize an HTML snippet, removing XSS payloads.
```

```javascript
import DOMPurify from 'dompurify';
el.innerHTML = DOMPurify.sanitize(html, {RETURN_TRUSTED_TYPE: true);
```

> DOMPurify [supports Trusted Types](https://github.com/cure53/DOMPurify#what-about-dompurify-and-trusted-types) and will return a sanitized

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DOMPurify [supports Trusted Types](https://github.com/cure53/DOMPurify#what-about-dompurify-and-trusted-types) and will return sanitized
```

HTML wrapped in a `TrustedHTML` object such that the browser does not generate
a violation.
{% Aside 'caution' %}
If the sanitization logic in DOMPurify is buggy, your application might still
have a DOM XSS vulnerability. Trusted Types force you to process a value _somehow_,
but don't yet define what the exact processing rules are, and whether they are
safe.
{% endAside %}

#### Create a Trusted Type policy
Sometimes it's not possible to remove the functionality, and there is no
library to sanitize the value and create a Trusted Type for you.
In those cases, create a Trusted Type object yourself.

For that, first create a [policy](https://w3c.github.io/webappsec-trusted-types/dist/spec/#policies-hdr). Policies are factories for Trusted Types that enforce certain security rules on their input:

```javascript/2
if (window.trustedTypes && trustedTypes.createPolicy) { // Feature testing
  const escapeHTMLPolicy = trustedTypes.createPolicy('myEscapePolicy', {
    createHTML: string => string.replace(/\</g, '&lt;')
  });
}
```

> This code creates a 'myEscapePolicy' policy that can produce `TrustedHTML`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This code creates a policy I've named 'myEscapePolicy' policy that can produce `TrustedHTML`
```

> objects via its `createHTML` function. The defined rules will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
objects via its `createHTML()` function. The defined rules will
```

HTML-escape `<` characters to prevent the creation of new HTML elements.

Use the policy like so:

```javascript
const escaped = escapeHTMLPolicy.createHTML('<img src=x onerror=alert(1)>');
console.log(escaped instanceof TrustedHTML);  // true
el.innerHTML = escaped;  // '&lt;img src=x onerror=alert(1)>'
```

{% Aside %}

> While the JavaScript function passed to `trustedTypes.createPolicy` as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While the JavaScript function passed to `trustedTypes.createPolicy()` as
```

> `createHTML` returns a string, `createPolicy` returns a policy object that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`createHTML()` returns a string, `createPolicy()` returns a policy object that
```

wraps the return value in a correct type - in this case `TrustedHTML`.
{% endAside %}

#### Use a default policy

> Sometimes you can't change the offending code. For example, this is the case if you're loading a 3rd party library from a CDN. In that case, use a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes you can't change the offending code. For example, this is the case if you're loading a third-party library from a CDN. In that case, use a
```

[default policy](https://w3c.github.io/webappsec-trusted-types/dist/spec/#default-policy-hdr):

```javascript
if (window.trustedTypes && trustedTypes.createPolicy) { // Feature testing
  trustedTypes.createPolicy('default', {
    createHTML: (string, sink) => DOMPurify.sanitize(string, {RETURN_TRUSTED_TYPE: true});
  });
}
```

The policy with a name `default` is used by the browser every

> time when a string is used in a sink that only accepts Trusted Type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The policy with a name `default` is used wherever a string is
used in a sink that only accepts Trusted Type.
```

{% Aside 'gotchas' %}
Use the default policy sparingly, and prefer refactoring the application to use

> regular policies instead. Doing so encourages the design in which the security

Reviewer: ```suggestion
regular policies instead. Doing so encourages designs in which the security
```

rules are close to the data that they process, where you have the most context
to correctly sanitize the value.
{% endAside %}

### Switch to enforcing Content Security Policy

> When you application no longer produces violations, you can start enforcing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When your application no longer produces violations, you can start enforcing
```
